The window object is our global object on browsers.
It's properties and methods contains information about the browser and computer screen.

window.navigator
window.location
window.history

Browser information
window.navigator
  The window has a property of navigator that contains information about the browser being used.

  window.navigator.userAgent
  use navigator's userAgent property will return browser and operating system info,
  but it is not reliable information.

window.location
  the location property contains information about the URL of the current page.

    window.location.href returns the full URL as a string.

    window.location.protocol returns the protocol used
      ex. http: https:

    window.location.host returns the domain and port of the URL
      ex. www.google.com

    window.location.hostname returns a string with just the domain of URL
      ex. www.google.com

    window.location.port returns the port number or an empty string if the port
      is not explicitly stated on URL.

    window.location.pathname returns a string of the path that follows the domain

    window.location.search returns a string that starts with "?" followed by the query string parameters.

    window.location.origin returns a string with the protocol and domain
      "https:www.google.com"

    window.location methods
      reload() to reload the page.
      if given paramter of true, it will force the browser to relaod the page from the server
      instead of a cached page.

      assign() load another resource from a URL provided as a parameter

      replace() same as assign() but the page will not be stored in history,
      so the user will not be able to navigate back using the back button.

      toString() returns the string containing the whole URL

Browser history
window.history

  Used to access information from previously visited pages in the current
  browser session.

  window.history.length
    shows how many pages have been visted before the current page.

  window.history.go()
    is used to go to a specific page, where the parameter is a number

    window.history.go(-1) // goes back 1 page
    window.history.go(0) // reloads the current page
    window.history.go(1) // goes forward 1 page

  window.history.foward() and window.history.back()
    navigates foward and back

Controlling Windows
  window.open(URL, TITLE, ATTRIBUTES)
    Will open a new window.

  popup.close();
    closes a window.

  window.moveTo(0,0);
    will move the Window

  window.resizeTo(600, 400);

Screen information
  window.screen contains information about the screen of the browser.

    window.screen.height

    window.screen.width

Document Object
  The window object contains a document object that has properties and methods
  that deal with the page that has been loaded into the window.

  document.write()  //Should not use
    writes a string of text to the page.
    if the page has already loaded, it will replace the current document.

    document.write('<h1>Hello, world!</h1>');

Cookies
  Cookies are used to store information of a user
  Cookies can be read by a web page from the same domain that set them
  Cookies are 4KB max and 20 cookies are allowed per domain

  Creating cookies
    document.cookie = 'name=Superman';
    document.cookie = 'hero=true'; //this will append the cookie and not erase the first one

  Reading cookies
    just type document.cookie

  Cookie Expiry Dates
    Cookie are session cookies by default, which means they are deleted once a browser
    session is closed.

    Cookies can be made persistent by adding 'expires=date'
    The date is a date value in UTC String format

    An alternative is the set the max-age value (in seconds),
      document.cookie = 'name=batman; max-age=86400'

    Path and Domain of Cookies
      By default, cookies can only be read by pages inside the same directory.
      The path can be changed so that any page in the root directory can read the cookie.

      document.cookie = 'name=Batman; path=/';

    Secure Cookies
      Adding the string ';secure' to the end of the cookie will ensure its only transmitted
      over https network

    Deleting Cookings
      to remove a cookie, set it to expire in the past

      document.cookie = 'name=Batman; expires=Thu, 01 Jan 1970 00:00:01 GMT';

    Timing Functions
      setTimeout()
        Executes the callback function after a certain amount of time
        setTimeout(callback, milliseconds);

        when executed, setTimeout() returns a number, which is an ID that references
        to the timeout.  We can use this ID to cancel the timer with clearTimeout();

      setInterval()
        Similar to setTimeout but it will repeat the callback function

      use clearInterval() to stop the repeat.
